Computer Science TutorComputer Science TutorForrest City, AR-Astute Entry Level Software Engineer graduate enthusiastic about developing practical and time-saving software solutions. Strive to build software that is as structurally, semantically and aesthetically cohesive as it is intuitive for the user. Work collaboratively to isolate problem domains and implement simple and repeatable solutions. Quickly learn and master new technology; equally successful in both team and self-directed settings.Authorized to work in the US for any employerWork ExperienceComputer Science TutorThe University of Memphis - Memphis, TN-August 2016 to May 2017Conducted one-on-one and group tutoring sessions for Computer Science students. Taught students how to code Java applications using BlueJ and Eclipse on Windows and Mac. Taught students how to code Python applications using Python for Windows and Mac.Unpaid InternshipDMDM Cleaning Inc - Savage, MN-January 2016 to May 2017Used computer software to design advertisements for business. Installed software, modified and repaired hardware and resolved technical issues. Designed and maintained spreadsheets for various purposes using Microsoft Excel while incorporating programming skills.CashierFlash Market - Forrest City, AR-August 2014 to November 2014Operated a POS system to itemize and complete an average of 200 customer purchases per shift. Trained new cashiers on procedures, customer service and sales techniques. Greeted customers entering the store to ascertain what each customer wanted or needed. Processed monetary transactions with cash, checks, gift certificates, travelers' checks, food stamps, coupons and store credit.Aerospace Maintenance JourneymanUnited States Air Force - Minot AFB, ND-September 2009 to September 2013Performed crew chief operations such as assisting air crew for takeoff, landing, and taxing of aircraft. Reviewed maintenance forms, aircraft records, and reports for completeness. Performed inspections and serviced multiple aircraft. Maintained tool accountability, inspections, inventory, and serviceability. Utilized computer software to distribute and locate tools. Trained incoming airmen to perform crew chief operations.EducationBachelor of Science in Computer ScienceThe University of Memphis - Memphis, TNMay 2017East Arkansas Community College - Forrest City, ARSkillsJAVA (6 years), PYTHON (Less than 1 year), C++ (Less than 1 year), Git (1 year), Ruby on Rails (1 year), HTML (6 years), MySQL (1 year)Additional InformationAdditional Skills: Fast learner Familiar with version control (Git) Attention to detail Patient Desktop and laptop repair Internal components installation Strong ability to follow directions  Additional Information: Oak Hill Church of God - Forrest City, AR     Teens' Ministry Volunteer     Sound Booth Operator