Computer Science Teachers AssistantComputer Science Teachers AssistantAshland, OH-Willing to relocate: AnywhereAuthorized to work in the US for any employerWork ExperienceComputer Science Teachers AssistantCleveland State University - Cleveland, OH-August 2016 to May 2017Assisted in the Invitation to Computing class. This is a class that uses Java to introduce basic computer science concepts. Graded assignments. Helped design programming assignments. Developed guides on how to install Java.CIS TutorCleveland State University - Cleveland, OH-September 2014 to July 2016Tutored students in CIS classes. This includes the languages: Java, Assembly Language, C, and C#. It also involves more complex theoretical Computer Science ideas like Object Oriented Programming and Algorithms. I was also tasked with scheduling the other tutors and monitoring the lab.Business Developer and ITChengelis Scientific Consulting - Ashland, OH-June 2013 to August 2014After graduating college I helped my father launch his consultancy, including developing a business plan. Created financial statements and helped create a budget. I designed the website using Squaresoft and was the point person on contacts through the website. On the IT end I made sure all the computer equipment was working, along with creating PDFs and other items.Formulation InternWIL Research Laboratories, LLC - Ashland, OH-May 2010 to August 2010Worked in a lab that prepared the vehicles for drug testing at a Contract Research Organization. Calibrated lab equipment, produced aliquots, mixed chemical compounds, cleaned lab equipment, wrote lab reports, and disposed of chemicals. All of these tasks had to be done to very specific levels of accuracy, and follow FDA and EPA guidelines.Camp CounselorYMCA Camp Fitch - North Springfield, PA-2007 to 2009EducationMaster's in Computer and Information ScienceCleveland State University - Cleveland, OHAugust 2014 to May 2017BBA in Economics and FinanceUniversity of Dayton - Dayton, OHAugust 2009 to May 2013Skillsbusiness plan. (1 year), Microsoft Office (3 years), Python (2 years), Java (2 years), SQL (2 years), No-SQL (Less than 1 year), Hadoo (Less than 1 year), C (1 year), Microsoft SQL Server (2 years), Algorithm Design and Analysis (Less than 1 year), Object Oriented Programming (1 year), Data Cleaning (Less than 1 year), Data Acquisition (Less than 1 year), Data Processing (Less than 1 year), NumPy (1 year), SciPy (1 year), Data Science (Less than 1 year), MongoDB (Less than 1 year), Linux (2 years), Scripting (1 year), Support Vector Machines (Less than 1 year), Naive Bayes Classifier (1 year), Sentiment Analysis (Less than 1 year), Neural Networks (Less than 1 year), Collaboration (3 years), Economic Analysis (1 year), Critical Thinking (3 years), Conversational Spanish (1 year)Additional InformationI have worked on numerous major projects in school: Sentiment Analysis on Reddit’s NBA subreddit, Machine Learning on Tetris. Book recommendation system using Text Analysis in a Hadoop system, Finding the best predictors of future Home Run output for Major League Baseball.  I also have many interests: Reading, Cooking, Sabermetrics, Sports, Video Games, Travel, Photography, Crossword Puzzles, and Home Brewing. I was also a High School board member of the Monsignor Dunn Foundation.