Telecommunications AssociateTelecommunications AssociateFranklin, NC-Seeking a position in a respectful and professional environment, that would be suited to my current knowledge, talents and acquired skills. The position would allow me the opportunity to advance in responsibility and position as my knowledge, talents and acquired skills increase with experience and further education.Willing to relocate: AnywhereAuthorized to work in the US for any employerWork ExperienceTelecommunications AssociateComputer Science Raytheon Antigua Air Station-2010 to 2015Responsible for the maintenance, upgrade and troubleshooting of all the Satellite and Base Circuit connections for the Internet and all Communication circuits for the Antigua Air Station. Equipment includes but not limited to telephones, fax machines, switches for phones, routers, modems, personal computers and internet hook-ups, broadband radios and local area networks (LAN). Responsible for Maintaining and Testing existing telecommunication systems as well as Installing new telecommunication systems on the Air Station. Creatively worked with supplies on hand to at least get minimal use of the systems until replacement parts could arrive. Developed and maintained an Inventory system to track all spare equipment. Responsible for the maintenance and all upgrades to the Telemetry Recording IRIG Timing system. Responsible for the Issuance, Repair and Troubleshooting of the Air Force Common Access Card (CAC) System as a Site Security Manager (SSM).Site Security ManagerAntigua Air Station Common Access Card-2010 to 2015Engineer 1 - Electro - Mechanical DesignNorthrop Grumman Melbourne - Melbourne, FL-2005 to 2008Assist in developing designs of a functional system to develop or improve products and facilitate manufacturing operations. Develop solutions to routine technical problems of limited scope. Utilizing computer-aided design equipment, develop basic data to make preliminary layouts, sketches, and notes necessary to incorporate design. Investigate pertinent design factors such as ease of manufacture, availability of materials and contractual specification requirements. Coordinate with other design organizations during development. Review completed layouts and drawings for clarity, completeness, conformity to standards, procedures, specifications, and accuracy. Identify design errors, omissions, and other deficiencies, and recommend revisions and/or improvements in design layout to responsible engineers or designers.  Work Experience: (Cont.)PMT LeaderElectrical and Mechanical Back-Shops-June 2003 to June 2005First Enlisted CIRIS System Flyer for the 316X3 Career Field at the 6585th Test Group at Holloman AFB. Lowest Ranking Non Commissioned Officer in Charge (NCOIC) Uninterruptible Power Supply system as an Airman First Class at the 6585th Test Group at Holloman AFB.Electronics' Assembler SeniorNorthrop Grumman Melbourne - Melbourne, FL-2002 to 2005Fabricate Wiring harnesses in accordance with Manufacturing work orders and Engineering work requests. Read and decipher Engineering drawings and schematics for Advances and Prototype builds. Troubleshoot and rework existing harnesses in accordance with Engineering requests. Hold the position of Team Lead for the Manufacturing Electrical and Mechanical Back-Shop Process Management Team, which include coordinating and overseeing the proposed projects in work by the PMT team. Directly involved with the Employee rewards program to ensure all team members have the opportunity for acknowledgment and recognition.Computer Technician Laboratory OperationsNorthrop Grumman Melbourne - Melbourne, FL-2001 to 2002Coordinate Repairs and Upgrade's associated with the Compag Operators Work-Stations and Central Processing Computers. Track and Maintain Computer Configurations for both the Development and Integration sides of the Computer Replacement Program (CRP) Lab. Maintain, Update and Utilize Bench Test Procedures for Troubleshooting, Repairing, Upgrading and Testing of all suspect computers. On several occasions and with specific Engineering requests repaired and tested Computers, with no Compag Supervision, which were required for immediate turnover.Analyst-Scheduler/Planner, Associate-ManufacturingNorthrop Grumman Melbourne - Melbourne, FL-1997 to 2001Review, update and create master and operating schedules using engineering drawings and manufacturing engineering requirements for the fabrication of detailed parts and assemblies. Perform routine maintenance on the Manufacturing Group Schedule (MGS) system. Used computer skills, assembled detailed information into briefing and status packages for management meetings and production proposals.Electronic Technician - ComputersNorthrop Grumman Melbourne - Melbourne, FL-1995 to 1997Perform a variety of duties associated with analog and digital computers, such as testing, repair, recording, and updating computer hardware and software systems. Set up system tests to include, applying input signals and power, running diagnostics and recording the data. Performing repairs based on the test data and generating new test specifications. Test A/C Systems using Integration and Check Out Procedures and generate test reports for customer evaluation.Lead CIRIS Test TechnicianUnited States Air Force Holloman AFB - Holloman AFB, NM-1984 to 1994Supervise instrumentation and telemetry systems facilities. Design, assemble, install, inspect, repair, modify, test, calibrate, analyze and direct performance checks and measurements of instrumentation and telemetry control systems to ensure continuous acceptable system performance. Maintain and manage hardware and software configuration for instrumentation and telemetry facilities computer and test systems.  Accomplishments: Manufacturing Employee of the Quarter for the Second Quarter of 2004.EducationBachelor of Science in Information TechnologyBarry UniversityJune 2003Associates of Science in Electronics Systems TechnologyCommunity College of the Air ForceApril 1994U.S. Navy Satellite CommunicationsNASA Soldering SchoolAdditional InformationMulti-Disciplined education and experience with a Thirty year background in testing and evaluation of communication, navigation, operations and control systems. Systems including but not limited to the Air Force Completely Integrated Reference and Instrumentation System (CIRIS), NAVSTAR Communications and Control System, and the Differential Global Positioning System that were all used for testing of proposed Air Force navigation systems. Uninterruptible Power Supply (UPS) Systems for the 6585th Test Group at Holloman AFB and Operations and Control Systems at the White Sands Missile Range Operations and Control center.  Joint Stars experience includes but is not limited to being directly responsible for the day-to-day support as well as any equipment or software upgrades for the CIRIS system, which was used as a navigational reference base for the first three test aircraft. I have also been trained in all the preflight and post flight procedures for the Navigation, Communications (to include loading of Crypto keys), Operations and Control and Radar sub-systems. I also had the opportunity to be involved in the first generation of Integration and Check Out Procedures (IACO's) that were developed for the Joint Stars Fleet. Held a Leadership position as the Process Management Team Lead for the Electrical and Mechanical Back-Shop PMT for Manufacturing for 2 years.  My Air Force and Contractor experience has given me a versatile background in electronic, computer, communication, and navigation systems. This directly leads to my continuing interest in related engineering projects with a willingness to learn new technologies and accept technical challenges with enthusiasm.