Multimedia SpecialistMultimedia Specialist (Music - Film - Design)San Mateo, CA-Willing to relocate to: Echo Park, CA - Los Feliz, CA - Silver Lake, CAAuthorized to work in the US for any employerWork ExperienceMultimedia SpecialistBelmont Oaks Academy - Belmont, CA-July 2007 to July 2016Assisted adults and children with all areas of the computer science department and multimedia   creation of the academy.  I rewrote the computer science program from the ground up which now includes curriculum focused around Adobe design software, iStopmotion, Hyperstudio multimedia design, iMovie video editing and music production.  I've been producing music and video creations since I was 11 years old when I produced my first skateboard video with titles and music.  I've been a huge fan of film and visionary art my entire life.EducationBACHELORS OF FINE ARTS in GLOBALIZATION & TECHNOLOGYWEBER STATE - San Francisco, CA2005 to 2006SkillsAdobe Premiere, Photoshop, Illustrator, After Effects, Animate, Pro Tools, Ableton Live,  iMovie, Final Cut Pro, Book Creator, iWorks Presentation Software, Mac Operating Systems, Type 80+ WPM, Excellent Communicator, Positive Attitude (10+ years)Linkshttp://www.eric-montross.comhttp://www.illuminertia.bandcamp.comhttp://www.leadershipmindsetnetwork.comCertifications/LicensesMusic for Film, Games, & TVLights Film SchoolAdobe Motion GraphicsAdditional InformationI am a very passionate and motivated creative professional that thrives in a collaborative environment.  Imagine a team player who feels very much at home in a culture that is focused on producing inspiring multimedia.  I'm fascinated with the process of creating engaging stories that captivate the imagination and transmit vital information to a given audience.  You'll often find me taking tutorials on the latest Adobe CC software, audio production tool, or innovative video editing technique.  I also love to generate original film scores over documentaries, short films and stop motion videos.  I'm constantly learning new skills in these areas and it is my goal to consistently further my own education in the realm of multimedia production.  I've taught courses on stop motion, video editing, music production and design.  I've also collaborated with grammy award winners on musical recordings.  I find fulfillment in collaborating with other creative professionals in an effort to produce an emotionally engaging finished product that people love.