Computer Science / Mathematics StudentComputer ScientistFrederick, MD-A skilled computer science aficionado who is familiar with Java, C/C++, Python, Scala, HTML, CSS, PHP, SQL, JavaScript, Assembly, VHDL and multiple parallel programming paradigms such as MPI, OpenMP, P-threads, and CUDA.  Experienced team member and leader in roles such as U.S. Army specialist, small business owner, manager, network technician and proprietary systems administrator. •    Proven track record of both being a team member and team leader. •    Created several websites and specific applications using multiple programming languages. •    Over 20 years of experience in the electrical, telecom, security, and computer industries. •    Computer Science Bachelor’s Degree, Associate’s degree and multiple certifications.Authorized to work in the US for any employerWork ExperienceComputer Science / Mathematics StudentComputer Science - Frederick, MD-January 2014 to May 2017Relevant Education: •    Planned and constructed multiple websites using HTML, CSS, PHP, SQL and JavaScript. •    Conceptualized and created databases, reports, and documentation to support websites. •    Built, troubleshot and tested applications while adhering to stringent requirements. •    Investigated and analyzed algorithms related to pertinent programming paradigms. •    Was a primary contributor to a project that built a simulator using Python, OpenGL, and Qt4. •    Utilized hardware or VHDL software to build logic gates, counters, clocks, multiplexers, demultiplexers, and shift registers with COTS components. •    Drafted and instituted parallel programming frameworks including MPI, OpenMP, P-threads, and CUDA in working code using C / C++ programming languages.  Relevant Projects: •    Website for tracking local school athletic pole vaulting poles, mapping each pole to students, coaches, schools and vendors, to facilitate the sharing of resources amongst schools. •    Web application for Hood College students to provide pertinent information to each student utilizing a calendar, map, set of forms, and student handbook information. •    Two-dimensional Fluid simulator for modeling multiple liquids at varying temperatures and flow speeds in a user generated environment with customized barriers. •    Researched, discovered and adapted free and open sourced software to create an application that would manipulate each pixel in an image using parallel programming paradigms. •    Created tool for retrieving public data to showcase the simplicity of concurrent programming in the Scala programming language. •    Led a team to create a suite of programming tools using only the terminal interface that would provide system information, provide network information, and an asynchronous chat room.  •    Led a team to assemble, customize and program a robotic car with touchscreen and web cam that could be viewed and controlled through a web based interface.Lead Telecommunications tech.multiple locations-June 2008 to July 2016Programmed Fixed Cameras, PTZ's, Fortress Radios, and VMS layouts to customer specifications. • Installed and maintained Cisco Switches, Fiber Optics, CCTV and wireless network systems. • Installed and Programmed soft-buttons on camera software to operate streetlights. • Installed and Maintained Wireless Fortress Radio Systems. Installed and maintained cable, voice, wired and wireless internet systems and satellites systems. • Trained 35 sub-contractors to meet Bright House Networks, DirecTV and Dish Network standards. • Consistently called upon to complete special projects and troubleshoot problems.Industrial Electricial, Instrumentation and Calibrationmultiple locations-January 2006 to June 2008Installed and Calibrated, RTD's, and chart recorders. • Maintained flow meters, counters, and controllers and transmitters. • Experienced bending rigid and EMT conduit. • Designed, Built, & Installed customized electrical enclosures with flow meters & transmitters, counters, controllers, motors, motor starters, and valves. • Maintained all Chemical Plant electrical systems including PLC's, VFD's, MCC's, AC& DC systems, pumps, servos and panels, hydraulic and pneumatic systems. • Maintained all Plant industrial Electrical, Hydraulic and Pneumatic systems. • Familiarized with drill presses, lathes, mills, MIG and TIG welding techniques and tools. • Maintained 4 industrial aluminum presses and fabricated and repaired parts to maintain equipment. • Experienced in Lock-out, Tag-out Safety procedures.Telecommunications Technicianself / subcontractor - Lakeland, FL-December 2003 to June 2006ran projects in the communications cabling industry - A/V, Security, Phone Systems, Network  - Demonstrate a clear knowledge of codes and standards  - Communicate with strong verbal skillsShop ManagerAccurate Controls - Lakeland, FL-March 2001 to December 2003Managed and Supervised 3 personnel, in shipping, receiving, design and production of Industrial Electrical equipment and MCC's. • Assisted the Design and Programming of Allen Bradley and Siemens PLC's and Mini-PLC's. • Designed and built custom electrical panels with CAD drawn electrical schematics. • Rebuilt and redesigned electrical panels and Motor Control Centers. • Supervised, wired PLC's, electrical panels, and MCC's. • Created ALL custom electrical schematics with AutoCAD. • Familiar with NEC and UL standards.Communications Team LeaderU.S. Army - Fort Campbell, KY-September 1995 to September 1999Controlled, operated, and maintained central mobile communications network. • Supervised 20 and trained over 50 personnel in multi-channel transmission operations. • Maintained over 5 million dollars worth of equipment. • Possessed a SECRET security clearance.  References, and historical resources available upon request.EducationBachelor of Science in Computer Science and MathematicsHood College - Frederick, MD2015 to May 2017Associate of Science in Computer ScienceFrederick Community College - Frederick, MDJanuary 2014 to December 2014Certificate in Engineering Graphics/AutoCADPolk Community CollegeSeptember 1999 to May 2003Honor Graduate of Multichannel transmission systems operator / maintainer course in telecommunicationsU. S. Army Signal Center - Fort Gordon, GANovember 1995 to March 1996Badge in Repelling and SlingloadingUS Army Air Assault School - Fort Campbell, KYSkillsOffice Applications (10+ years), PHP (3 years), HTML 5 (4 years), SQL (3 years), CSS (4 years), R programming and R markdown (2 years), Python (3 years), Java (3 years), C (3 years), C++ (3 years), Scala (1 year), Bootstrap (2 years), Javascript (2 years), AutoCad (5 years)Linkshttp://G-N-1.comhttps://gitlab.com/g1g2napierMilitary ServiceService Country: United StatesBranch: ArmyRank: E4September 1995 to September 199931R Multichannel Transmissions Systems Operator/ MaintainerCommendations:Army Achievement Medal, 
Air Assault BadgeCertifications/LicensesJones/NCTI CablingJuly 2010 to PresentCertification of residential and commercial cable installation techniques.Jones/NCTI HSDJuly 2010 to PresentCertification for High Speed Data Network installation techniques.Jones/NCTI VOIPJuly 2010 to PresentCertification for Voice Over Internet Protocol installation techniques.SBCA Satellite CertificationNovember 2008 to November 2011Satellite and Broadcast Communications Association Certification for standard and high definition satellite installation.