Adjunct Teacher Medical Coding & Billing and Computer SupportCertified Medical Coding and Billing, Quality Assurance Transcription onlineCheyenne, WY-To obtain a Medical Coding and Billing position.  I have CMBS certification.  Ability Summary Excellent customer service and communication skills, Reliable and dependable. Able to multi task, Professional Phone Etiquette, Knowledge of PC and programs, Microsoft Word and Excel, Data Entry, Accounting and Bookkeeping and all office machines. Skilled in motivating and interacting with the public. Disciplined and well organized in work habits, with the ability to function smoothly in pressure situations. Time Management. Ability to identify problems and implement effective solutions. Dedicated and fast learner. I work independently and as a team player.Authorized to work in the US for any employerWork ExperienceAdjunct Teacher Medical Coding & Billing and Computer SupportInstitute Business and Medical College - Cheyenne, WY-June 2015 to PresentClosing Cheyenne IBMC on October 12, 2017.  I am available for work immediately.   Microsoft Office, Quickbooks,and Web Page design. Customer relations as I do longarm quilting for customers as a hobby.  I am an adjunct teacher who works with students in Medical Coding and Billing and with students in Computer Support Services.  I have my CMBS that I received in 2016 and CEU in ICD-10 CM Understanding The Official Guidelines in Coding and Reporting.  I have 20+ years in the medical field.Quality Assurance/TranscriptionistIMEDX - Atlanta, GA-April 2012 to December 2014This was a work from home on line position performing Quality Assurance Transcription for various medical offices and hospitals.Quality Assurance TranscriptionistElectronic Medical Transcription - Coral Springs, FL-April 2011 to November 2012Review reports transcribed by medical transcriptions for gross errors, edited and made corrections before referring to clients.Bookkeeper and ClerkComputer Consulting - Mitchell, NE-November 1995 to November 2011Owner and operator of my own business. Completed all accounting and books, trained individuals on how to run their computers, set up software, built computers and installed software. I also taught them Microsoft Office, Quick Books, Internet browsing and emails.Quality Assurance TranscriptionistOutsourcing Systems Transcription - Douglasville, GA-February 2007 to March 2011Transcribed MT medical reports for clients and was promoted to Quality Assurance where I reviewed medical transcriptionist reports for quality before releasing to the client.Assistant Executive SecretaryWestern Nebraska Community College - Scottsbluff, NE-May 1989 to November 1994Began in the LPN Department as Secretary and was promoted to Student Services under the Director of Marketing.  Created mail outs, Help set up and attend to distribute flyers and recruit new students.EducationNone in Business Administration and Computer ScienceWestern Nebraska Community College - Scottsbluff, NE1994 to 1999SkillsGeneral office skills required including; typing, calculator, computer skills including Word processing, Microsoft Word and Excel. Good oral and written communication, telephone skills, filing, ability to read, understand and apply policies and regulations as required. Maintain confidentiality of participant information. Team player and ability to work well under pressure in the daily accomplishments of tasks. (10+ years), Billing (10+ years), Coding (10+ years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), Adobe Acrobat, Transcription (10+ years), Microsoft Office 365 word, excel, outlook sharepoint, and Access.  Coding and Billing EHR program by Cengage. (3 years), Quality Assurance (10+ years), Customer Service Skills (10+ years), Training (10+ years), Computer Skills (10+ years), Quickbooks (7 years), Bookkeeping (10+ years), General Office Skills (10+ years), Secretarial (10+ years), Google Docs (2 years), Internet (10+ years), Internet (10+ years), Web Design (3 years), Data Entry (10+ years)Certifications/LicensesCMBSOctober 2016GroupsMedical Association of BillersOctober 2015 to PresentMembership of the Medical Association of Billers.  Just joined and took my Certification which is a requirement now.  I have been a Biller and Coder in the past long before Certification was required.Additional InformationOver 20+ years of experience with medical transcription and coding to include: ICD9 Coding, CMBS certification.  Also have 3 years of experience as an Office Manager. Quality assurance, computer skills, accounting and customer service skills.  I have ran my own computer business and accounting for 16 years. I was President of the Nebraska Home Based Business Association when active in 1996.  I have designed my own web page Longarm of The West Custom Quilting, LLC as my hobby is quilting and sewing.  I am a member of XJWC Professional Womens Group and Cheyenne Herritage Quilt Guild.  I volunteer at Meals on Wheels which is a program that takes in donations and puts in a store to provide food for those who are not able to cook for themselves or get out of their homes.