Data Science Independent ConsultantData Science Independent Consultant - Captial Group, Machine Learning, Information Technology and Economic Policy ConsultantsIrvine, CA-• Ph.D. Candidate who is constantly studying, researching and applying the latest trends in data science. -- Comprehensive knowledge and extensive experience in statistics, large scale data modeling and analysis. Solid coding skills with various languages. -- Proficient with machine learning algorithms and techniques. Practical experience with big data tools like Hadoop, Spark and Map Reduce. Excellent data analytical skills with detail oriented.Work ExperienceData Science Independent ConsultantCaptial Group, Machine Learning, Information Technology and Economic Policy Consultants - Irvine, CA-April 2015 to PresentDescription: Combined spatio-temporal models, such as ARMA, GARCH, and supervised learning models, such as random forest, neural network to perform hourly parking demand forecasting in the downtown area by emphasizing the spatial and temporal correlations between them. • Consult on broad areas including data science, spatial econometrics, machine learning, information technology and systems and economic policy. • Solve problems from inception to completion with data analytics.Research ScientistGE Oil&Gas - Houston, TX-January 2013 to April 2015Description: Developed an adaptive online learning framework for real-time breast cancer diagnosis, by integrating supervised learning (SL) and reinforcement learning (RL). The system can adaptively make cancer diagnosis according to the available measurements, and recommend the next measurement based on the current situation. • Explored data visually and statistically, classified/clustered and analyzed through machine learning algorithms (mathematical and statistical modelling). • Developed both supervised and unsupervised learning algorithms to establish patterns of formation, operation and sustenance of software developers' community network. • Calculated efficiency of developer communities through application of stochastic dominance, bootstrapping and exponential random graph statistical models on dynamic (time-series) data. • Formulated algorithms to evaluate the impact of developer community network on growth of software developers with supervised Bayesian spatial logistic, fixed effect and interaction statistical and economic models. • Established diffusion of software prediction algorithms amongst users using supervised and unsupervised learning models including, bass predictive model, Bayesian spatial probit model and network science.Hadoop EngineerFord Motors - Detroit, MI-January 2008 to January 2013Description: Ford's High Performance Computing (HPC) team hosts a Hadoop environment as a service to global customers. The Hadoop environment is hosted as a shared service with a dedicated production, disaster recovery, and combined DEV/QA cluster.  • Responsible for implementation and end to end administration of Hadoop infrastructure • Worked on installing cluster, commissioning & decommissioning of DataNode, name node recovery, capacity planning, and slots configuration • Experienced in using hadoop eco systems • Imported and exported data using Sqoop from HDFS to RDBMS. • Participated in installation and configuration of Kerberos and administering permissions in Kerberos. • Collaborating with application teams to install operating system and Hadoop updates, patches, version upgrades when required. • Point of Contact for Vendor escalation • Performance tuning of Hadoop clusters and Hadoop MapReduce routines. • Screen Hadoop cluster job performances and capacity planning • Monitor Hadoop cluster connectivity and security • HDFS support and maintenance • Configured Fair Scheduler to provide service-level agreements for multiple users of a cluster. • Wrote the shell scripts to monitor the health check of Hadoop daemon services and respond accordingly to any warning or failure conditions • Having experience in Manual installation of Hadoop with Linux operating system and making of own flavour • Involved in loading data from UNIX file system to HDFS. • Query analysis and tuning advice for end users, to maintain throughput and reliable operation. • Complete scripting to deploy monitors, checks, and other SA function automation. • Perform Production Support for any problem leading to acceptable resolution, including daytime, night-time, and weekend support if required. • Frequent Database refreshment configuration in both Dev and QA servers • Enabling cron jobs, checking the log files /var/adm/messages /dmessages /syslog • Used HP Quality Center for logging test cases and defects.  Environment:Linux, RHEL/Solaris, Hadoop(Map/Reduce, Hbase, PIG, HIVE, HBASE, HortonFramworks, and Eclipse Helios Oracle10 & MySQL Java/J2ee, Struts and Eclipse.ConsultantEricsson - Reading-March 2002 to December 2007Reading, UK Working onsite (MTS MSC/Data Centre) to manage all aspects of VAS operations and support on continuous improvement in the CRBT Application System running on multiple Linux servers, involved in monitoring, escalating, supporting for patch upgrading, delivering services as per client requirement and maintain uninterrupted service  • Utilized Agile Methodologies to manage full life-cycle development of the project • Created Web Layer using JSF framework. • Used JSOUP for web content testing. • Used struts framework's action states for handling the dialog modules. • Used Log4j for logging and tracing java code • Designed and developed front-end screens using JavaScript's, CSS, and HTML. • Involved in coding for Testing test cases, ANT for building the application. • Implemented MVC design pattern • DAS Storage hardware support. • With the deployment of automation and reporting systems was able to reduce staff requirements. • Also coordinated database backup and recovery for Informix, Oracle, and MS SQL with DBA • Deployed and supported a monitoring and reporting platforms. • Provided on-site and remote management for hot failover. • Integrated build and release system into company wide release process. • Translate business requirements into system requirements and functional specifications. • Providing Production Support & troubleshooting. • Worked on different environments like Production, Development and Integrated Testing. Environment:Ubuntu11.10/Linux, RHEL/Solaris/Windows, Oracle, Mysql, PGadmin, Java, Eclipse, Web Sphere, Oracle 8i, Struts, Servlets, JSP, HTML, JavaScript, JDBC, UML, EXCEL, Rational Rose, Ant, PL/SQL packages.EducationPhD in Applied MechanicsIIT Mumbai - Mumbai, MaharashtraMaster of technology in Mechanical EngineeringIIT Mumbai - Mumbai, MaharashtraBachelor of technology in Mechanical EngineeringIIT - Chennai, Tamil NaduAdditional InformationTechnical Skills:  ➢ Programming: Java, Python, R, C, C++, C# MATLAB, FORTRAN, Tcl, Lua ➢ MachineLearning:ScikitLearn, Pandas, Statistics, Optimization, Applied Mathematics ➢ Big Data: Hadoop/MapReduce, Hive ➢ Tool: VSS, Eclipse3.4, TOAD, ANT, Maven, WSAD, CA Harvest, CVS, PVCS, RAD, itext Designer, Hudson, SOAPUI, Fiddler, JMeter, CISCO Call studio and RSA ➢ Web Servers: Tomcat 6.0 ➢ Application Server: Web Logic server 10.3, Web Sphere 7.1, Oracle9i AS, WASCE 3 ➢ Languages: JAVA, C, C++, HTML, DHTML, XML and SOAP