Intern (Text-Mining)Chicago, IL-Vishal Panguru graduated from Northern Illinois University in Master's in Computer Science. He is dedicated, energetic and  a motivated student.  Vishal is passionate in the field of Data science and is specialized in Databases and Software Engineering.  He has extensive knowledge and experience experience in development of various web applications using Java, Python, J2EE, XML, JSON, HTML, CSS, PHP, REST, JavaScript etc. Vishal has an expertise in DB Design, DB normalization and writing SQL queries & PL/SQL- Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers, Sequences, Indexes and Views etc. He has good amount of Knowledge in understanding Design Patterns and deep understanding of Object Oriented Programming Concepts and good knowledge on Data Structures.  As an undergraduate he was the vice-president of the student association in his college. He worked as a student coordinator for various national level technical symposiums. He participated in many technical as well as non-technical events in college. He had done various projects on web development, cloud computing, android applications, JAVA, networking, UI/UX designs, text mining etc.  His experience in volunteering various programs in college has given him a thorough understanding of the operational environment of an academic network. He is confident that he would bring the same kind of energy and dedication to any organization.Willing to relocate: AnywhereSponsorship required to work in the USWork ExperienceIntern (Text-Mining)Department of Computer Science, Northern Illinois University - DeKalb, IL-January 2017 to May 2017Developed a python script to extract all the places and their description along Mississippi river from various texts present in http://twain.lib.niu.edu/. Stored the data in a JSON file using the database TinyDB. Performed Sentiment Analysis and Gender Analysis on various texts of Mark Twain using a tool RapidMiner and python. Increased analysis efficiency rate by 25% in developing dashboards using tableau, visualizing reports considering multiple dimensions and attractive visualization types of the data stored. Finally, examined Mark Twain’s and his contemporaries descriptions of individual locations along the Mississippi river, as well as federal census data and election returns using concepts of text mining.Graduate Teaching AssistantDepartment of Computer Science, Northern Illinois University - DeKalb, IL-January 2016 to May 2017Assisted department professors and faculty members to conduct classes effectively. Collaborated with team members and actively contributed to new ideas.  Assisted students in writing power queries to fetch data from different websites, connecting to SQL server client to fetch data from tables and create pivot tables for predictive analysis. Reduced development time by 20% in effectively debugging various code errors and simultaneously implementing new functionalities for internet computing applications. Tested and evaluated various SQL, CSS, HTML and PHP scripts written by the students.  Facilitated classes for undergraduate and graduate students on various topics such as ER Diagrams, Normalization, SQL, HTML, transactions, PHP and MySQL embedded in C++.Software Developer InternEabyas Info Solutions - Hyderabad, India-August 2014 to July 2015Designed and developed the web-tier using HTML, JSP’s, Servlets, Spring framework.  Involved in the development of business module applications using J2EE technologies like Servlets, JSP and JDBC.  Used the light weight container of the Spring Frame work to provide architectural flexibility for Inversion of Controller (IOC).  Hibernate frame work is used in persistence layer for mapping an object-oriented domain model to a relational database (Oracle).  Implemented various design patterns in the project such as Singleton and Factory.  Used SQL statements and procedures to fetch the data from the database.EducationMaster of Science in Computer ScienceNorthern Illinois University - DeKalb, ILAugust 2015 to May 2017Bachelor of Technology in Computer ScienceMahatma Gandhi Institute of Technology - Hyderabad, Telangana, INAugust 2011 to May 2015SkillsC++ (3 years), DATABASES (3 years), HTML (3 years), MYSQL (3 years), PHP (1 year), Java (2 years), Javascript (1 year), Python (Less than 1 year), C (3 years), SQL Server (3 years), CSS3 (2 years), Data Mining (Less than 1 year), Data Analysis (Less than 1 year), JQuery (Less than 1 year)Linkshttps://www.linkedin.com/in/vishalvallabhAdditional InformationWon a medal in the inter-college coding competition CODEVita-2015 conducted by TCS (Tata Consultancy Services). Been a chief-coordinator managing around 300 students of various colleges for a state-level technical symposium ‘Qubit-15’. Actively participated in Android and Ethical Hacking workshops conducted by prestigious college - IIT Kharagpur (Indian Institute of Technology).