Director of Data ScienceDirector of Data Science - Ad TechSan Francisco, CA-Director of Data Science with expertise in developing and deploying cloud/big data products looking for strategy role in a tech company in San Francisco. Led machine learning algorithm development and scaling to petabytes of data. Agile growth of machine learning platform for video classification pipeline of marketing product at Conversant Media. Experienced at training and mentoring data scientists in machine learning focused on user analytics and text context from images for webpage classification.Authorized to work in the US for any employerWork ExperienceDirector of Data ScienceConversant Media - San Francisco, CA-April 2016 to PresentLed the machine-learning team for the marketing video classification product through NLP and image/video classification. Developed teams of data scientist and data engineers with recognized experience in classification, user attribution, and Spark processing. Created the data platform for data science teams to manage all big data jobs at petabyte scale for real-time decisioning products for ad campaign pacing optimization and user profile matching.Lead Data ScientistConversant Media - San Francisco, CA-November 2015 to April 2016Guided content team to 300% growth of classified inventory. Integrated 3rd party data with web page ETL process of millions of pages per week for entity detection and video featurization for 10% precision lift. Created product roadmap of video classification team to align with current programmatic video marketing trends for paid media platform. Analyzed all account and performance to define KPIs and detect user trends to inform product decisions in Tableau on MySQL dataTechnical Product ManagerBoeing Inc - St. Louis, MO-November 2012 to April 2015Accomplishments - Collaborated with cross functional teams to collect user data and leverage for design decisions - Analyzed and tested visual sensor displays to validate compliance with stakeholder requirements - Implemented trade studies on proposed pilot simulator changes to present to stakeholders - Created design and test requirements for subsystem assemblies on prototype display system  Responsibilities  Integrated pilot simulator systems used for image generation and display. Developed life-cycle processes from creating design requirements and verification criteria. Performed trade studies of proposals to existing display system to direct change strategies. Worked with interdisciplinary teams to plan, design, develop and verify prototype systems.Growth ManagerCRU-April 2011 to June 2012Accomplishments - Directed a team and communicated strategic vision, daily tasking, and best practices - Established positive public relations with local school teachers and organization leaders to encourage buy-in - Identified and developed opportunities with local schools for organization partnerships through communicating effectively the value-added benefits of partnering with the organization  Responsibilities Led an intern team in developing operational strategy for assigned city of Abidjan, Ivory Coast, Africa. Managed strategic vision for team to align with international vision of establishing positive public relations with local school teachers and organization leaders. Acted as liaison between team and local groups to ensure good communication and single point of contact.EducationM.S. in Machine LearningMissouri University of Science and Technology2011Linkshttp://www.github.com/mastrauthttp://www.linkedin.com/in/mattstrautmann