Data Science InternArlington, TX-Willing to relocate: AnywhereSponsorship required to work in the USWork ExperienceData Science InternSuperior Data Science LLC - Arlington, TX-January 2017 to March 2017Main Responsibilities: Project Management and Predictive Modelling  •    As Scrum Master, organized project planning, daily stand-up meetings, sprints, release planning and demos for 3 projects. •    Developed an algorithmic trading model on Quantopian using Python pandas and zipline libraries with ROI of over 30%.  •    Research assistance on machine learning projects involving Handwriting Recognition and Stock Factor Selection.Industrial Engineer InternBluplast Industries Co. - Mumbai, Maharashtra-January 2015 to August 2015Main Responsibilities: Productivity Improvement, Process Standardization, Lean Implementation  •    Value stream mapped processes to update Standard Operating Procedures that increased overall production by 18%. •    Performed time and motion studies of pre-assembly, assembly and packing processes to eliminate non-value adding steps & set labor standards. •    Introduced a standard time wage incentive scheme which motivated laborers and increased labor productivity by 34%. •    Improved cleanliness, efficiency and reduced wastage by introducing visual management systems and training labors on 5S.  •    Optimized assembly line operations by 12% by carrying out line balancing to reduce bottlenecks and process variation. •    Studied past data to forecast future yearly demand and proposed an effective EOQ model with reduced inventory costs.Business Operations AnalystDiversified Communications India Pvt. Ltd - Mumbai, Maharashtra-March 2013 to October 2014Main Responsibilities: Process Improvement and Business Operations Management   •    Increased $25K revenue by standardizing operating procedures for each department by conducting employee interviews, root cause analysis and process mapping.  •    Analyzed transactional data of over 800 clients to provide strategic advice to the advertising department that increased revenue by 23%. •    Reduced total product cost by 21% by negotiating rates with raw material suppliers, product distributors and printers. •    Created operational modules of all business processes for faster training and learning of future employees. •    Regularly monitored website performance to identify issues, discover irregularities and errors & informed IT about it. •    Presented insights to Managing Director for effective decision making and performance management via presentations and monthly reports. •    Provided analytical and consultative support to our exhibition sales and operations team on an ad-hoc basis. •    Trained three interns on end to end project management to assist with daily company operations.EducationMasters in Industrial EngineeringUniversity of Texas at Arlington - Arlington, TXAugust 2015 to December 2017Bachelor in Electronics EngineeringUniversity of Mumbai - Mumbai, MaharashtraAugust 2008 to May 2012SkillsSQL (Less than 1 year), Tableau (Less than 1 year), SAS (Less than 1 year), Pivot Tables (2 years), MS Excel (4 years), MS Powerpoint (4 years), MS Project (1 year), R progamming (Less than 1 year), Six Sigma (1 year), Continuous Improvement (1 year), Manufacturing (1 year), Operations Management (1 year), Lean Manufacturing (1 year), Logistics (1 year), Leadership Development (4 years), Communications (4 years), Python (Less than 1 year), Project Management (2 years), SAP Predictive Analytics (1 year), Simio (Less than 1 year), Product Management (2 years), Operations (3 years), Minitab (Less than 1 year), Production Management (1 year), Inventory Control (1 year), Cost Control and Analysis (3 years), General Management (4 years), Agile (Less than 1 year), Scrum (Less than 1 year), Alteryx (Less than 1 year), Value Stream Mapping (2 years), Industrial Engineering (Less than 1 year), CAD (1 year)Linkshttps://www.linkedin.com/in/ronak-sheth/Additional InformationExpected Fall 2017 ASQ Certified Lean Six SIgma Green Belt.