Data AnalystKearny, NJ-Highly-motivated, engaging, and analytical Applied Statistics Graduate seeks to leverage professional strengths and technical skills toward a full-time data science or statistics position. Extensive data analysis consulting experience gained through graduate-level project work. Proven ability to contribute on collaborative multidisciplinary project teams with experience in project planning, experimental design, analysis, and reporting. Refined multilingual (English / Mandarin / Korean) communicator, capable of partnering with project stakeholders, technical team members, senior leadership, and external vendors. MS in Applied Statistics from New Jersey Institute of Technology.Willing to relocate: AnywhereSponsorship required to work in the USWork ExperienceData AnalystNew Jersey Institute of Technology - Newark, NJ-June 2016 to PresentPartnered with resident physician to analyze admission data to assess correlation between TSH and PR intervals in hypothyroid patients taking levothyroxine; drew boxplots for different groups of admissions such as PR responses to low TSH and utilized Q-Q plots to determine whether the underlying distributions are normal. Additional analysis using Kolmogorov-Smirnov Tests, Kruskal- Wallis Rank Sum Tests, and Dunn's Multiple Comparisons Tests.Statistical Consultant / Research AssistantNEW JERSEY INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY - Newark, NJ-2016 to 2017Provided comprehensive project support on multiple engagements supporting research conducted in partnership with Math Department, Civil Engineering Department, and external partners. Responsibilities included support with experimental design, data collection, statistical analysis, and reporting. Specific projects include:Sales Forecasting-September 2016 to November 2016Analyzed brand-specific monthly sales data from nearly 200 stores to predict monthly sales based on 24 factors to fit linear regression model. Prepared data by making datasets consistent and removing redundant variables. Developed a full linear regression model as well as PRESS statistic (predicted residual error sum of squares) to identify collinearity between variables and make informed predictions of future sales.  STATISTICAL & DATA ANALYSIS EXPERIENCE (continued)InternshipBank of China - Daqing-June 2014 to September 2014Intern / Financial Management Department Organized customer financial statements, reviewed the lender's economic conditions, and studied the various submitted financial statements, such as business license, organization code certificate, for accuracy prior to loan approval.EducationMaster of Science in Applied StatisticsNEW JERSEY INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (NJIT) - Newark, NJSeptember 2015 to May 2017B.S. in Measuring, Control Technology, and InstrumentationsBEIJING INSTITUTE OF PETROCHEMICAL TECHNOLOGY (BIPT) - Beijing, CNSeptember 2011 to June 2015Valedictorian of Beijing Institute of Petrochemical Technology2015SkillsDATA ANALYSIS (2 years), experimental design (1 year)Certifications/LicensesCertified Advanced Programmer for SAS 9May 2017 to PresentCertificate Serial Number: AP020659v9Certified Base Programmer for SAS 9November 2016 to PresentCertificate Serial Number: BP064821v9Additional InformationHighly-motivated, engaging, and analytical Applied Statistics Graduate seeks to leverage professional strengths and technical skills toward a full-time data science or statistics position. Extensive data analysis consulting experience gained through graduate-level project work. Proven ability to contribute on collaborative multidisciplinary project teams with experience in project planning, experimental design, analysis, and reporting. Refined multilingual (English / Mandarin / Korean) communicator, capable of partnering with project stakeholders, technical team members, senior leadership, and external vendors. MS in Applied Statistics from New Jersey Institute of Technology.  Professional Skills    Statistical / Data Analysis    Technical Skills • Project Coordination    • Experimental Design    • MS Office, MATLAB