Data Science ArchitectData Science Architect - NaviHealth, IncDiamond Bar, CA-• Experienced Information Technology Professional in Analysis, Design, Data Architecture, Data Modeling, Software Development Application, Data and Process Architectures of Commercial Systems. • Facilitated and focused on high priority projects and ensured to meet development and data governance standard on developed and delivered configuration components with cost savings. • Strong skills in complete Software Development Life Cycle and Solution Delivery Methodologies. • High quality of flawless product development for both OLTP and OLAP environment implementation projects. • Skilled in Data Management, Data Analysis, Conceptual, Logical & Physical Modeling (Relational, Star, Snowflake and Kimball Techniques), Normalization, Data Mapping & Integration, ETL, Messaging, Data Quality, and Metadata Management. • Orchestrated best practices and procedures in application and Data Science concepts with an extensive experience and judgment to plan and accomplish goals. • A wide degree of Independence, Creativity and Latitude with key-contribution to Project Ownership, Solution Delivery process and Product-quality. • Excellent technical analysis skills for data integration and data migration projects. • problem Solving, positive and can-do nature with a smile.Willing to relocate: AnywhereAuthorized to work in the US for any employerWork ExperienceData Science ArchitectNaviHealth, Inc - Diamond Bar, CA-December 2016 to Present• NaviHealth provides the medical care provision on post-acute care for patients on the first 90 days (Model 2) after their in-patient hospitalization. • The Employee Dashboard on Business Analytical Report for all employee tasks completion in various clinical trials such as Patient Assessments, LiveSafe, Authorization Decision and, Patient / Provider /Visit Notes, BPCI Interqual Notes and on caseloads is been big challenge for NaviHealth and kept in backlog over a period. • As an Architect, reviewed the backlog requirements, business process, ETL-EDW setup, Coding standards, Testing Methodologies, Implementation, Release process and production support for NaviHealth. • Designed Entity-Relationship model for Employee Task Completion Dashboard report for EDW to host all clinical task processed data and needed clinical events, the event subtypes for the corresponding care setting to yield the unique productive points. • Designed and developed the Transformation process needed to capture measure on various clinical trial data received from upstream (care management) data in EDW fact tables. • Designed and modified the existing process to adopt the requirements needed for new BI dashboard reporting. • Introduced the Change Data Capture (CDC) Mechanics from the earlier version as 'Truncate and Load' in EDW environments for the newly added fact tables in EDW. • Assisted the QA team to review test cases, test results and resolve the QA defects identified during the QA cycles. • Provided dashboard report query and entity join properties for BI report dashboard team for seamless dashboard, drilled down and detail report Analytics. • Oversee the project execution and provided the deployment objects on configuration items to be released in QA / UAT environments on QA / UAT deployments. • Involved to conduct daily scrum updates on over-all project updates and keep the time line and milestone deliverable.  SQL Server 2012, SSRS, SSIS, Office Desktop Tools, Tableau 9.0, ErWin, Jira, Micro Soft Visual Studio, Team Foundation Server (TFS)Data Science SpecialistReTrans Inc - Memphis, TN-October 2015 to November 2016• RE Transportation (ReTrans), Inc. provides the cutting technology for logistics management and multimodal shipping services that covers direct rail contracts, oversized and temperature-controlled solutions and truck load services such as dry van, flatbed expedite/time definite, long-haul and regional and short-haul services • Re-Engineered the Enterprise Data-Ware (EDW) house process for loading shipments and loads (master bill lading) in relational data structure, in two tier architecture. • Revisited Physical Data Model that supports the Business Intelligence reporting needs and provided the enhancement requirement for future reporting needs. • Reviewed the xml data structure received in different versions from Mercury Gate for the data loads and transform source tree structure to the needed resultant data structure writing the XSL style sheet for seamless data loads. • Clobbered with business users for setting up look up tables (Side Car) for BI reporting hierarchy. • Setup a daily process using the ETL tool, SAP Designer service (BODS) to flatten the company's hierarchies with parent and child level for maximum of 10 levels in a relational table for BI reporting requirement. • Fulfilled the mapping document needed for different customers reports from the data source loaded thru. ETL-EDW process. • Created system test plans and performed the integration test on shipments and loads data transferred from the xml sources using needed SQL Statements. • Developed metadata repository using OBIEE Administration tool in Physical, Business Model and Mapping and Presentation Layer • Designed and developed various Interactive Dashboards and reports with drilldowns, guided navigation, filters and prompts.  MySQL 5.5, SAP Business Objects Designer Services (BODS), Oracle 11g, Mercury Gate, Mercury - Edge reporting, OBIEE 10.1.3.4, BI Publisher 10.1.3.4Enterprise ArchitectService Master - Memphis, TN-August 2014 to September 2015• Involved in architecting, design and build an Enterprise Data Warehouse platform for TruGreen Decision Support System Daily Reporting. • Analyzed the Source AS 400 DB2 tables, performed the data pruning and data mapping document to build individual datamart for Sales, revenue and daily operations to convene the business analytical environment. • Designed, developed and implemented EDW data warehouse environment using Cognos data manager ETL tool to build full / daily refresh on data warehouse tables. • Performed capacity planning on the Data warehouse tables growth for optimized storage allocation and management for efficient memory usage on DML usages • Created and performed a detail test plans for unit, system and integration testing in different platforms on ETL packages for rollouts. • Worked on logical and physical data model that drives all the enterprise reports needs and business analytics. • Maintain and support the daily ETL jobs in Windows Task Scheduler for the seamless execution of both daily, incremental and full refresh on needed ETL tables from the source table.  SQL Server 2008/2012, T-SQL, Cognos Data Manager, Microsoft Analysis services, QlikView, Tableau, SQL View Point, AS 400, DB2, SQL i Navigator, MS Office ToolsSenior Technical AnalystAmerican Home Shield-March 2013 to July 2014• Primarily focused on enterprise finance users on Accounts Payables and Receivables batch process enhancements on contract payments received. • Provided the design and build reviews for credit card payment (payment tech) for Sibel project implementation. • Reviewed logical and physical data model supports the business and reporting applications needs and performed the gap analysis to fulfill additional reporting requirements. • Worked on campaign management batch process enhancements for contract renewal applications and renewal reporting. • Provided support and guidelines for the Data Center Operations, for flawless daily, weekly, monthly and yearly jcs jobs execution. • Created and maintained the business intelligence reports in power builder application for enterprise decision support process. • Assisted business driven various adhoc / monitoring reports / alerts  ORACLE 11g (rel11.2), SQL Server, PLSQL, T-SQL, Oracle Forms, Unix, SSRS and SSIS, Unix shell programming, SVN (Source Code repository), Sparx EA V10, Salesforce.com, RemedyOracle Designer/ Technical AnalystALSAC/St. Jude Research Hospital - Memphis, TN-April 2012 to February 2013• Provided the solution analysis and design for Account Data Upload (ADU) process enhancement for St. Jude Pals. • Worked in ADU re-architecture - phase I redesign for the enhancement on the Account Data Upload process improvement using SSIS ETL process • Reviewed and analyzed the proof-of concept on using Salesforce.Com web pages for Disaster Recovery Data Upload Process • Provided design, development and production implementation for Donor Care day-to-day business requirement for supporting Donor Account Processing (DAP) evolved as Jira (a work request tracking mechanics) • Worked on various front end oracle forms application screen for customized resolution on donor care tool 'Team Approach' (A tool for donor care and marketing) version 5.0.16. • Design and developed business intelligence reports using SQL server and reporting services for donor process decision support system • Analyzed and worked for requirement updates for year 2012 Donors Tax receipts updates - A process provides the donor account details to send out 2012 tax paper for Account Holders  ORACLE, SQL Server, PLSQL, T-SQL, Oracle Forms, Unix, SSRS and SSIS, Unix shell programming, SVN (Source Code repository), Sparx EA V10, SalesforceData ArchitectTata Consultancy Services - Franklin, TN-June 2011 to April 2012• Working as Data Architect for the kingfisher project - the revenue earned system for the DaVita Claim Processing. • Worked and provided data migration strategies for the historical and transactional data load in new applications. • Provided database artifact deliverables by reviewing business requirements and to create high level designs on conceptual, logical and Physical data models in Erwin data modeler using Erwin model manager. • Provided Oracle Total Recall tool installation, setup and development guidelines for flashback archives and historical data archival process • Recommending the design and development solution for application program interfaces for .net applications, required in oracle procedures, function and packages. • Evaluated the project timelines, reviewed the deliverables and artifacts and to provide the proof of concepts on product deliverables prior to deliverable.  Erwin, Oracle11g Enterprise Edition R2, Oracle Scheduler, Total Recall, Unix, Shell and Batch Scripts, Perl Scripts, ORM Entity Frame work 4.1, Dot Connect - Oracle Data Access providerSr. Technical AnalystFedEx - Memphis, TN-June 2010 to May 2011FedEx Customer Analytics team enhances the reporting structure on FedEx Customer interactions and their call volume by compliments and complaints and created cases and aging of the cases using Business Intelligence report.  • Worked as data modeler for Customer Performance Analytics project involving the customer survey reporting involving the decision support system using teradata and ETL load in data warehousing environment on FedEx inbound and outbound calls. • Completed the detail data profiling on required data warehouse tables for maximizing the data quality to create data mapping specifications. • Reviewed business requirements and to the create logical and physical data model for ETL load and create data dictionary and data mapping technical references for ETL warehouse tables data load belong to the applications FedEx customer's interactions and cases creation • Provided technical assistance in data loads on Fact and Dimension tables for ETL development. • Monitored database run time on report queries and provided performance tuning for database report queries for optimum execution time using Explain Plan, TKPROF, SQLTRACE, Partition Pruning and Creating Parallel Queries for efficient report run time. • Provided Technical Requirement Specification for report development for report development to create Business Objects reports • Automated test plans and test cases for validating data load and data source to ensure the quality in reports • Follow-up the change requests and performed the production release process for the monthly release sc.  EDW Terradata, Oracle10g, Unix, AbInitio, Power Designer, XML, Quality Center, SAP Business ObjectsSr. IT DeveloperMedtronic - Memphis, TN-October 2007 to April 2010Medtronic EDW environment provides the high level decision support system for end users to keep track on financial, sales, marketing, revenue, inventory and pricing data on daily, monthly, quarterly and annually.  • Primary task is to focus on the ETL design for a daily data load for ware-house reporting. • Creation of Logical and Physical data models for Burst Reporting, feasibility analysis to send reports in sales agents hand held devices, technical design and develop the framework to run several occasions for a day, or week and fiscal month basis. • Design and develop various loaner projects following the standard validation process for the reporting needs and provided system level process models at high and detail levels. • Provide architectural design for parallel jobs execution on a long running hours job to run concurrent processes for optimum run time. • Review and recommend changes in System Process, Data Layers and Application Architecture landscape based on Business/Functional Requirements Specification. • Maintain and Support ETL process for daily execution for the SLA timing provided by business. • Provide solution analysis and implemented efficient long term solution approaches on failed production jobs • Do time-estimation of the project in details with a breakdown of each module database objects like packages, triggers, data scrubs. • Collaborate in product deployment and release in production, • Do unit, regression, load and integration testing of the product, to reconcile with technical and business specification scenarios • Provide guidance and solution delivery to developers and review code. Do performance tuning of code. • Resolve post-production issues and help Support team for defect tickets creation • Perform Callidus Software upgrade 4.5 for Commission Management. • Perform and support and month end tasks required for ICM for sales reps. commission earning process. • Medtronic uses Informatica 8.5 and Oracle 10g. Code repository maintained in VSS, HP-Unix,Skillsdatabase (8 years), ETL (7 years), EXTRACT, TRANSFORM, AND LOAD (7 years), Oracle (6 years), Unix (6 years)Additional InformationTechnical Skills Databases    Oracle […] DB2, Sybase, MS Access, MS SQL Server […] TeraData, MySQL 5.5 Dev. Tools    Oracle Developer Suite, T.O.A.D, SQL Navigator, Micro Soft Visual Studio Languages    PL/SQL, T-SQL, C, C#, SAS, COBOL, JCL, Pro*C, ABAP/4, Unix Shell Programming, Squirrel SQL, SQL Navigator, SQL i Navigator Data Modeling Tools   ERWin, ER/Studio, IBM RationalRose, Oracle Designer, MS Visio, Power Designer, OmniGraffle  Methodologies    SDLC, Agile and Kanban/Scrum Methodology using Jira, Sol. Deliverable Methodologies (SDM) DBA Tool    Oracle Enterprise manager, O/S    Windows, Windows NT, Unix, MVS, Linux, AS400, Apple Mac, Hardware    Mainframe 3970 Emulator, SUN Solaris, IBM-PC, PDP11 Project Mgmt.    Micro Soft Project, IBM- Rational Clear Case and ClearQuest ETL - Tools    Informatica (power center 7.0/8.0), MS SSIS, Cognos Data Manager, SAP Designer Services (BODS) Reporting Utilities Oracle Reports, Micro Soft Reporting Services […] Callidus Software (Actuate Report), Crystal Reports, Cognos and Tableau Reports v9.0, MS Analysis services, QlikView, Mercury Gate - Edge. OBIEE […] BI Publisher […]  Version Controls    Visual Source Safe, SVN, Clear Case, Mercurial, SourceForge, Visual Source Studio, Team Foundation Server