Data Science ConsultingArlington, VA-Results-driven professional with solid experience in data science & decision making, policy analysis, economic analysis, and data analytics & knowledge management. Substantial expertise in research & statistical modeling and analysis, social media content analysis, and analytical writing. Effective interpersonal and communication skills with strong conceptual and creative problem-solving capabilities and high computer literacy. Native fluency in Arabic and French.Authorized to work in the US for any employerWork ExperienceData Science ConsultingArlington, VA-2008 to PresentApply data science techniques and domain expertise to structured & unstructured data to extract actionable insights and design data analytics solutions for a variety of clients from both the public and private sectors. • Design research and quantitative analysis, including hypothesis testing, content analysis and sentiment analysis, on user-generated content to assess attitudes/perceptions. • Translate business needs into technical requirements, apply statistical and machine learning techniques (e.g., chi-square, linear/logistic regression, PCA, clustering) to build models. • Perform data profiling and analysis, develop indicators, conduct trend analyses, and draft several analytical reports to communicate the findings to clients. • Build big data analytics solutions. This consists of mapping requirements to technological solutions, including selecting appropriate tools, developing data models and management strategies to build effective end-to-end solutions. • Review technical proposals and draft several white papers on knowledge translation, cognitive computing, systems audit and monitoring, and cyber analytics.Project Lead & Research AnalystMITRE Corporation - McLean, VA-2003 to 2008Supervised a large government-sponsored project on biomedical data collection and analysis and the development of an information system. The project received the Trendsetter Recognition Award. • Managed the development of an online information system with a back-end database and the design of an automatic information ranking system to extract actionable knowledge. • Supervised a multi-team project, developed training guides, organized weekly meetings and workshops and designed a production reporting system for project monitoring an evaluation. • Crafted research strategies, drafted several technical reports, managed and provided IT support for 15 consultants, and administered the local area network (LAN)IT & Economic ConsultingWashington, DC-1998 to 2003Conducted market research and analysis and developed a series of business websites and databases. Clients included Howrey & Simon, Capital Economics, Institute for Local Self-Reliance, and MANAGEM.  • Conducted financial and economic analyses on market concentration (HHI analysis), price fixing schemes, and damage estimation, leading to six successful mergers/acquisition cases. • Developed a simulation model to define geographic markets with changes in commodity prices, reducing research costs by 25 percent. The model mapped automatically market concentrations, leading to the success of the most contested agribusiness merger in the U.S. • Designed several websites and databases and drafted reports for internal use and distribution to government agencies (e.g., Department of Justice, Federal Trade Commission). • Performed cost-benefit analysis on waste management projects in the DC metropolitan area.EducationPhD in Information TechnologyCapella University - Minneapolis, MN2011Master of Science in Resource EconomicsMichigan State University - East Lansing, MICertified Computer ProgrammingUSDA Graduate School - Washington, DCPublicationsWhy Human Expertise is Critical for Data Mininghttp://www.ijcit.com/archives/volume2/issue1/Paper020114.pdfJanuary 2013Abstract— Current   data   mining   (DM)   technology   is   not  domain-specific    and    therefore    rarely    generates    reliable, business actionable knowledge that can be used to improve the effectiveness  of  the  decision-making  process  in  the  banking industry.    Despite  this  shortcoming,  banks  continue  to  rely  on DM,  hoping  to  gain  a  competitive  edge  in  the face  of  rising global   competition   and   eroding   profits.   Using   PCA   and CHAID algorithm to  analyze and  evaluate a survey of 1,000 DM analysts revealed that the relationship between the level of human expertise  and  the  enhancement of  the value  of  DM  are statistically   significant However, the current   level   of integrating  expertise in  the  process  of  knowledge  discovery appears  less-than  satisfactory  given  the  low  level  of  perceived success (25%) in using DM technology.