MTS 1, Data Science EngineerMTS 1, Data Science Engineer - Security Data ScienceBakersfield, CA-As an information security professional, I have spent my career working to help improve the overall risk and threat security posture enterprise business, in many ways. At a young age, I exposed myself to many information security testing practices, while administering enterprise compute systems and network infrastructure. Within this context, I spent time as a Windows and Linux systems administrator, as well as administered a broadband telecommunications network for a large internet service provider. Not shortly after that, I redirected my career focus into information security.  I spent many years as an application security engineer, and penetration testing consultant. Following that work, I switched directions and helped develop a vulnerability management program, which helped the business identify vulnerability risk, and what remediation practices can help improve the overall risk posture of the company. Currently, I work as a data science engineer, using data sets from a variety of information security related data sources to help the business understand the key performance indicators, risk indicators, and operational metrics that help the business leaders make effective security data driven decisions.Work ExperienceMTS 1, Data Science EngineerSecurity Data Science - San Jose, CA-March 2016 to PresentRemote Employee)  •   Business Intelligence o    Produces actionable dash-boarding technologies to assist business leaders in understanding the overall threat and risk exposures within the context of each area of the company where there is an information technology influence. o    Aligns data elements into the proper data dimensionality, to produce the ability to answer analytical questions desired by consumers. o    Produces operational metrics that help visualize the overall effectiveness of all security operational initiatives within the context of information security.  •   Risk Modeling o    Produces a set of risk and threat data models, to be used to better understand what types of impact may occur on the business, in the event of a security compromise. This included but was not limited to: financial, legal, and brand risk. o    Develops aggregation technology pipelines, to produce "what if" conditions, where the data models can predict impact to the business in the event of some sort of physical or logical security breach.  •   Predictive Threat Intelligence o    Collects data in various form factors, to consume, analyze, and correlate security patterns and anti-patterns which indicate a potential indicator of compromise. o    Develops alerting and mitigation techniques, so operations staff can perform action to mitigate potential threat and risk exposures.MTS 1, Information Security EngineerVulnerability Management - San Jose, CA-November 2014 to March 2016Remote Employee)  •   Implementation, Configuration & Architecture o    Designed a vulnerability scan configuration and architecture within the scan technology, which produced a concurrent data design pattern, to efficiently consume and understand the scan results. o    Developed software technology to monitor this design pattern, and alert any unusual configuration across that standard configuration policy. o    Developed software to maintain the scope of what the scan technology was to target. This included compensating for scan safe windows, moratorium, and high priority / revenue generating systems within the infrastructure. o    Embedded the overall practice of the vulnerability management process into the change management and review board process.  •   Vulnerability Management Detection Cycle o    Identified data points within the eco-system, which would provide contextual information to ultimately understand risk topology, and accountability of systems in which the detected risk was discovered. o    Produced an integration with first and third party patch management solutions, to deploy security patches in an automated way, without impact the business needs of those systems. o    Established "Patch & Reboot" standards, to uniformly implement a recursive remediation plan for all high severity discovered vulnerabilities. o    Partnered with development operations staff to assist in creating a hardened base server platform, which can be destroyed, and re-deployed with the latest security patch and configuration requirements, before introducing them into a production environment. o    Created a "Risk Ranking" formula, to help produce a risk model, for all discovered vulnerabilities, and presented prioritized remediation plans.Information Security EngineerProduct Security Assessment - San Jose, CA-December 2012 to November 2014Penetration Testing o    Developed strategy on best practices for manual security assessments. o    Developed policy and procedures that operational teams can follow, to remediate discovered risk. o    Developed custom assessment tooling to exploit potential business security operational practices. o    Performed ethical hacking exercises on mobile and web application technologies. o    Performed ethical hacking exercises on network and infrastructure technologies. o    Created "capture the flag" environments, for software development staff to use for training purposes. o    Performed vulnerability remediation validation for both internal and bug bounty programs. o    Coordinated action plans with remediation teams to help better understand security best practices.  •   Application Security o    Facilitated operational administration of many application vulnerability scanning tools. o    Performed analysis on identified vulnerabilities, provided proof of concepts for remediation teams. o    Embedded the application security assessment practice into the overall software product life cycle. BRETT    BERGIN  3005    Bralorne    ct.    Bakersfield,    CA    93309    w    (408)    300-3210    w    brettberginbc@yahoo.comSecurity and Solutions ArchitectCore Security Technologies - Boston, MA-January 2012 to December 2012Remote Employee)  •   Deployed a Vulnerability Management Solution to provide an articulated view of Vulnerability Exposure and Risk Assessment. •   Provided solutions to help follow regulated corporate information security compliance standards. •   Introduced custom applications to help integrate this software solution into an existing data ecosystem. •   Helped minimize business risk by consulting with IT professionals, and introducing new concepts in keeping a well secured IT infrastructure. •   Maintained a Linux based software solution, managing its front-end Web application, database, backend and operating system platform. •   Worked remotely from corporate headquarters, managing multiple customer engagements simultaneously. •   Provided support for pre-sales engineering engagements with prospective customers, introducing the concept of the Core Insight Vulnerability Management Solution.Broadband & Video Operations EngineerBright House Networks - Bakersfield, CA-August 2010 to January 2012•   Provided System Administration for Unix, Linux, and Windows based operating system platforms. •   Worked with Conditional Access Systems in a Cisco Headend and various Data Centers. •   Implemented multi-cast replication as a transport method to such video systems as a Switched Digital Video Infrastructures. •   Proficient in troubleshooting QAM Modulation, with such devices as 96-QAM Cisco RF Gateway delivery systems, and RF combining. •   Provided hardware and software maintenance for Cisco Content Delivery Systems Serving as a Video on Demand Service. •   Implemented new software and hardware technologies into existing network environments. •   Developed software solutions to automate administrative and reporting tasks.3 Help Desk TechnicianTier - Bakersfield, CA-July 2008 to August 2010•   Provided remote technical support for commercial end-user Internet facing network connectivity. •   Worked in a Network Operations Center using many network monitoring system tools. •   Provided 24-hour support in the event of Network Failure.EducationBakersfield College - Bakersfield, CAAugust 2009CertificateNational Cable Technology Institute - Bakersfield, CAAugust 2009CertificateNational Cable Technology Institute - Bakersfield, CAAugust 2009High School DiplomaBakersfield High School - Bakersfield, CAJune 2004Skillsinformation security. (4 years), Linux (2 years), operations (6 years), Security (5 years), solutions (3 years)Additional InformationTechnical Skills  Development Operations  •   Managed and administered Linux and Windows server infrastructure. •   Deployed and maintained systems on cloud services such as OpenStack. •   Created access policies for identity management. •   Created remotely administrative capabilities, to perform automated administrative tasks at scale. •   Proficient in the TCP/IP and system hardening standards and practices. •   Proficient in operating system hardening standards and practices across Mac/Unix/Windows platforms.  Information Security  •   Ethical Hacking o    Identity Cracking / Privilege Escalation Assessment o    Application Security Assessment o    Configuration Assessment o    Platform & Infrastructure Assessment o    Database Assessment o    Network Assessment  •   Threat & Incident Response o    Developed signatures to detect for potential indicators of compromise on client systems. o    Performed mal-ware detection analytics for client systems. o    Performed DDoS detection analytics for perimeter security and monitoring practices.  •   Vulnerability Management o    Architected a vulnerability scanning eco-system which scaled to more than 500,000 compute assets. o    Created a configuration model, that allowed for concurrent data patterns for reporting efforts. o    Created an automated patch management integration with first and third party patch management solutions.  Data Science  •   Business Intelligence o    Used Database Technologies: MySQL, Oracle, MongoDB, Hadoop, HBase and Hive. o    Used both document and relational data architectures, to drive correlation patterns across agnostic data sets. o    Developed Common Information Models which demonstrate a concurrent data pattern, from uncommon data sources. o    Developed Web Service APIs to serve business intelligence data to a large subscriber base. o    Created client web application environments to demonstrate the overall business intelligence of a security organization. o    Created risk and threat models, to identify both pattern and anti-pattern behaviors from large data ecosystems.  •   Software Engineering o    Over 12 years using the python programming language. o    Developed integration and correlation technology. o    Developed data models to perform ETL processes. o    Designed the best practices and standards of the usage of python within the eBay ecosystem. BRETT    BERGIN  3005    Bralorne    ct.    Bakersfield,    CA    93309    w    (408)    […]    w    brettberginbc@yahoo.com