Data Science InstructorData Scientist / Data AnalystRaleigh, NC-Summary  Open source principles, creativity, and analytics guide my thinking. Transformational and passionate leaders motivate me. Teamwork enables me. Five word that really inspire me are: strategy, innovation, analytics, teamwork, and transparency. I am self-motivated and able to effectively lead or participate as part of a team and with people from various disciplines with varying degrees of technical and business experience. ITIL Certified with strong management skills as it relates to analytics projects, incident management, problem management .Extensive experience in Data Science, Data Analyst, Data Mining, Exploratory Data Analysis, Machine Learning, Senior level communication, user experience, and management of analytics project activities.  Excellent comprehension, presentation, and verbal/written communication skills. Experienced ranges across all levels of management, regions, and functions. Extremely well organized, detail oriented and able to multitask effectively. Skilled in building productive and mutually beneficial relationships with cross-functional teams. Flexible and have the ability to adapt quickly to changing business needs or compliance requirements. Ability to proactively identify and resolve potential issues as a result of a rapidly changing business environment.Authorized to work in the US for any employerWork ExperienceData Science InstructorNAFIS Atlanta Learning Center - Atlanta, GA-October 2016 to PresentTeaching a hybrid extensive Data Analytics/ Data Science course. The course is combination of lectures, Analytics tools, readings and assignment and topic covered are: − Data Science Skills: Tableau, SAS for Data Mining, RapidMiner, R/RStudio, Python, BigML, Decisions First, IBM BlueMix, IBM Watson Analytics, Presentation − Life Cycle of the Data Scientist: CRISP-DM, Identifying the problem, Preparing the Data, Analyzing the Data, Visualizing the Insights, Presenting Findings − Data Scientist Domains: Data Mining/ Creating BI Tools, Machine Learning/Modeling, Advanced Analytics, Computer Forensics, Big Data (Hadoop Ecosystem/Apache Spark)Data Analyst III /Senior Service Production Support LeadHabitat for Humanity International - Atlanta, GA-September 2014 to PresentAtlanta GA,  (09/2014- Present)  Data Analysis Accomplishment (Projects completed)  Using results from a prior mail solicitation for donations, I developed a model using a combination of SAS Enterprise Miner 13.2 on SAS 9.4, R and IBM Watson Analytics, to better target the organization future solicitation efforts. The model was built on finding individuals in the organization's database having traits similar to those of the organization's most profitable donors. The model helped the organization understand donor's behavior, improve donor's retention rate and spend less money on solicitation effort and gain more money on charitable concerns. Other analytics duties included: − Interpret data from primary and secondary sources using statistical techniques and provide ongoing reports. − Compile and validate data; reinforce and maintain compliance with corporate standards. − Develop and initiate more efficient data collection procedures. − Working with managing leadership to prioritize business and information requirements  Service Delivery Management and Production Accomplishments − Conducting routine monitoring, administration and continual improvement of applications within the production environment while providing high level technical support to clients − Facilitating for monthly maintenance activities as they relate to production applications − Resolving support requests through the ticketing system and functioning as technical escalation resource to Help Desk and ensuring accessibility and support for afterhours escalated priority support calls − Analyzing and troubleshooting applications and interfaces as necessary to meet the needs of organizational groups/individuals − Developing and maintaining all system and application documentation required to support and maintain applications and their production schedules − Ensuring data integrity of systems and proactively monitors applications and corresponding interfaces for issue indicators or production impacts − Interfacing with third party service providers to coordinate maintenance or upgrade schedules or to initiate/follow-up on tickets relevant to their services − Functioning as technical subject matter expert (SME) for support of applications in production environment and acts as a technical resource in organizational projects − Supporting various areas of the processing environment by automating processes, troubleshooting problems with various internal departments, and configuring and maintaining software platforms − Participating and leading team meetings, including status reports, meeting minutes, needs assessments, issues logs and change management process and procedures − Responding to production issues by reporting, logging, escalating, and tracking issues through resolution Utilizes automated monitoring and job scheduling alerts to act on potential production issuesData Analyst III/Senior Service Delivery AnalystRoyal Bank of Scotland - WorldPay Corporation - Atlanta, GA-June 2010 to August 2014Atlanta GA,  Service Delivery Analyst (IT Ops/Support Analyst III) (06/2010- 08/2014)  Data Analysis Accomplishment (Projects completed)  Using R and Tableau, I developed a model to determine the root cause or causes of the increase in the number of days that the business' help desk service tickets are remaining open. The model introduced sights to the management that helped redesigning and enforcing department's policies and developing a strategy to reduce the days open. The model improved the overall service delivery management performance through the addressing of specific needs and target areas. Other analytics duties included: − Extracted, compiled and tracked data, and analyzed data to generate reports using Tableau and Excel − Worked with other team members to complete special projects and achieve project deadlines. − Developed optimized data collection and qualifying procedures. − Leveraged analytical tools to develop efficient system operations. − Write and run programs for data analysis (frequencies) and data cleaning utilizing SAS Enterprise Miner − Merged multiple databases in different formats together, creating and running programs for data cleaning and tracking edits made to databases. − Interpreted operational requirements for inclusion in studies and analyses. − Developed quality control reports that document the consistent representation of data collected relative to the study protocols for each site, and conducting quality control check of the reports, within data sources. − Worked between the study team and statisticians by preparing datasets for analysis, conducting and presenting preliminary analyses, and participating in discussions with statisticians and study teams as an integral member of the analytic team. − Utilized SQL to import data from SQL Server, managed data processing, and conducted descriptive analysis. − Provided and conducted analytic efforts to support business operations − Identified, researched, and resolved discrepancies in analytical procedure or cross-functional methods. −  Provided recommendations for operational efficiencies and process improvements and assisted in policy development to support change initiatives.  Service Delivery Analyst and Application Support Accomplishment  ChangePoint Developer/Application Support − Developed system administration configurations for the company Professional Services Automation and Project Portfolio Management system solutions (PSA/PPM) called ChangePoint. − Worked closely with key stakeholders (process managers, owners, requesters) and process engineering to understand business requirements. − Worked closely with IT service delivery management, project management, development, QA, and other stakeholders to determine  and  define technical / functional/ configuration requirements − Implemented requirements in the system configuration. Created workflows and forms for Project, change, support, access and project intake. Added Applications list, initiatives, clients,  users, functions, roles, workgroups, − Helped creating and providing management reporting for different business needs using ChangePoint Report Designer − Maintained and supported ChangePoint ( Act as Focal point/ Subject Matter Expert for all ChangePoint related issues) − Provided advisory support and desk side support to ChangePoint to 1,500+ employees − Provided ChangePoint knowledge and architect solutions leveraging the capabilities of the tools to meet business needs. − Stayed abreast of industry and company developments and trends, including portfolio and project management capabilities and evolving IT portfolio management initiatives and solutions. − Experience supporting a production environment with 24/7 on-call responsibility (over 150 business critical Applications). − Maintained functionality, troubleshoot, and deployed upgrades to all applications used in the building and in the field. − Created and altered SQL scripts in order to provide system and software application support. − Reset and monitored servers during slowdowns, outages, and software deploy. − Provided and assisted in facilitating communications of application and database implementation requirements and recommendations between all team members.  Incident Management Analysis − Responsible for the effective implementation of the process "Service Desk  and  Incident  Management"  and  carries  out  the  respective  reporting  procedure. −  Represent the first stage of escalation for Incidents, should these not be resolvable within the agreed Service Levels. − Undertaking research for the root-causes of Incidents and thus ensures the enduring elimination of interruptions. − If possible make temporary solutions (Workarounds) available to Incident Management. Developing final solutions for Known Errors.  Problem Management Analysis −  Reviewed solution options and/or temporary solution −  Approved analysis results and reviewing problem validation −  Approved  results of  corrective  actions  based  upon  predefined  verification criteria −  Reviewed solution propagation activities −  Approved the results of root cause analysis (RCA). This includes the documented root cause (or the decision that such could not be found)  and  the documented workaround −  Communicated progress of problems to relevant parties −  Consulted for incident solution identification −  Examined  work  queues  for  problems  in  jeopardy  of  missing  service agreements −  Stayed informed of activities to restore to normal operations −  Reviewed all "on-hold" problems and known errors −  Created  Problem Tickets for all the Repetitive Incidents −  Reviewed progress and  results of  Problem  Tickets  with  client  and  (senior) management −  Set scope for (trend) analysis −  Supported in determination  of  problem  priority,  service  levels and  remedial action −  Supported the implementation of corrective actions − Applied Information  Technology  Infrastructure  Library  (ITIL)  framework   knowledge − Coordinated and facilitated problem resolution by engaging a variety  of  support teams −  Escalated issues for resolution, to avoid reoccurrence or close problem. −  Facilitated communication with clients, team members, suppliers, etc. to ensure the actions and changes which may affect them are known.  Change Management Analysis − Viewed of all the change request (RFC's) and approve the same. −  Review and provide the approval regarding the priority of the change request (Minor, Medium or Major). −  Table the entire request (Previous & Current) for CAB (Change Advisory Board) meeting. −  Issued of agenda and circulating to all CAB members in advance of   meeting. −  Convenes urgent CAB or ECAB meetings for all urgent RFCs − Issued change schedules and Chairing of CAB & ECAB meetings − Created risk calculator which helps the competency to calculate  what  the priority of the change can be after filling the risk calculator − Updated the change log with  all  progress  that  occurs,  including  any  actions to correct problems  and/or  to  take  opportunities  to  improve  service quality −  Reviewed all implemented changes  to  ensure  that  they  have  met  their  objectives; refers back any that have been backed out of have failed − Reviewed all outstanding RFCs, analyze change  records  to determine  any  trends along with  the closing  of  RFC's  and  then  producing  regular  management reports.Service Delivery Manager (SDM)Hewlett-Packard Corporation - Alpharetta, GA-July 2008 to June 2010Service Delivery Manager (SDM) Hewlett-Packard Corporation Information Technology Service Delivery Manager and Support Engineer for Global Business Intelligence (GBI)  IT, Alpharetta GA, (7/2008 - 06/2010)  Experienced in supervising staff and processes for maximum efficiency and effectiveness; reorganizing and refining operations to improve productivity; consistently exceeding business goals and revenue targets. Exceptional service delivery in instructor-led environments and highly effective problem-solving abilities.  Management and business accomplishments: − Managed various ITIL processes for Sales & Marketing applications such as: Incident Management, Problem Management, Escalation Management, Change Management, Knowledge Management − Managed the Decommission of retiring applications, Database health checks, Backups and Archives for more than 140 applications. − Generated and created business reports on daily basis using Excel and PowerPoint, and analyzed Time-To-Own (TTO) and Time-To-Fix metrics for all GBI applications to improve IT support response for application users − Monitored daily applications DTS packages, ETL process/ model and multiple processes/threads using the TIDAL scheduler. − Processed Documentations, updated Knowledge capture document, identified process gaps or areas for improvement, recommended and implementing solutions and trained new employees  Technology expertise accomplishment: − Supported engineers for multiple applications (Mission Critical, Essential Entity and Normal). Analyze issues, create/monitor tickets, and resolve them within SLA. − Respond to downstream systems users' queries in a timely fashion and monitor the infrastructure-related scheduled downtimes (e.g. Load delays or server downtime.), and send notifications (E-Cats) to the relevant team that will be affected. Also, negotiate with the responsible teams to reschedule the downtimes, if they are going to affect a critical business operation.EducationMaster of Science in Data AnalyticsUniversity of Maryland, University College - Adelphi, MDMay 2017Masters in Information TechnologySouthern Polytechnic University - Marietta, GADecember 2007MBA in MBASouthern Polytechnic University - Marietta, GADecember 2006Bachelor of Science in Computer ScienceFreed-Hardman University - Henderson, TNDecember 2004Associate of Applied Science in Applied ScienceJackson State Community College - Jackson, TNDecember 2003Linkshttp://www.linkedin.com/in/medvaniAdditional InformationSpecialties: Data Analytics, Data Science, Application Support, Service Delivery management Analytic proficiencies include: Python programing, R-programming, Classification Analysis, Regression Analysis, Clustering Analysis, Machine Learning, Bayesian statistics, Latent variable analysis, Structure equation modeling, Factor analysis (EFA, CFA, etc.), Latent growth curve analysis, Feature engineering, Multiple regression, PLS path analysis, Conditional process analysis, Hierarchical linear modeling, Multiple regression, Time series, Probabilistic forecasting, Clustering, Latent class analysis, Latent growth class analysis, Simulation, Machine learning, Swarm optimization, Random forests, Text mining, Latent, Sentiment analysis, Association Analysis, Anomalies Detection Analysis, Social network analysis, Non-linear models, Risk analysis, Fragile/antifragile classification, etc.  Recent Complete Projects NASA: Master Degree Practicum Project 1 Current 1st Project is bottom up PRACTICUM with NASA. It is about visualizing the NASA data universe to understand the metadata patterns and relationships. The project works with NASA data provided directly by NASA and with the purpose of providing one or more visualizations to understand the basic properties of the open datasets at NASA, such as types of data, where are these data being held, how much data are there, who, at NASA, is providing these data, and who is consuming these data? Dataset is in JSON format and Text Analytics is being conducted to group and classify documents for advanced analytics.  American Institutes for Research: Master Degree Practicum Project 2 Current 2nd Project is with American Institutes for Research (AIR.ORG). It is a team project and it is about collecting both structured and unstructured data from various state websites and human personnel in a central location, processing school enrollment data, transforming school performance data, transforming school metadata, transforming school ID, and transforming configurations to build an education dashboard. Tools used to complete the project are: R, SQL and Tableau  Habitat for Humanity International Data Analysis Projects completed Using results from a prior mail solicitation for donations, I developed a model using a combination of SAS Enterprise Miner 13.2 on SAS 9.4, R and IBM Watson Analytics, to better target the organization future solicitation efforts. The model was built on finding individuals in the organization's database having traits similar to those of the organization's most profitable donors. The model helped the organization understand donor's behavior, improve donor's retention rate and spend less money on solicitation effort and gain more money on charitable concerns. Other analytics duties included:  Royal Bank of Scotland - WorldPay Corporation Projects completed Using R and Tableau, I developed a model to determine the root cause or causes of the increase in the number of days that the business' help desk service tickets are remaining open. The model introduced sights to the management that helped redesigning and enforcing department's policies and developing a strategy to reduce the days open. The model improved the overall service delivery management performance through the addressing of specific needs and target areas. Udacity Data Analytics and Machine Learning Nanodegree Projects completed • P1- Perceptual Phenomenon Test: Used descriptive statistics and a statistical test to analyze the Stroop effect -a classic result of experimental psychology • P2- Titanic Dataset Investigation: Analyzed Titanic Data using Pandas and NumPy • P3- Atlanta OpenStreetMap Data Wrangling: Used data munging techniques, such as assessing the quality of the data for validity, accuracy, completeness, consistency and uniformity, to clean the OpenStreetMap data for Atlanta GA. Applied project schema using MongoDB and apply your chosen schema to the project. • P4- Exploratory Data Analysis: Used R/Python and applied Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA) techniques to explore variable correlations, data distributions, data skewness outliers, and anomalies. • P5- Fraud from Enron Email: Built algorithm to identify Enron Employees who may have committed fraud based on the public Enron financial and email dataset. • P6- Effective Data Visualization: Created a data visualization from a data set that tells a story and highlights trends or patterns in the data  Related Professional